= shellforce -- simple wrapper of salesforce.com REST API

A simple wrapper of Salesforce.com REST API, inspired by Rest Client developed by Adam Wiggins,Blake Mizerany and Julien Kirch. (https://github.com/archiloque/rest-client)

* Main page: http://github.com/mille-printemps/shellforce

== Configuration

Execute `shellforce_config` first. This will ask you to enter information necessary to create a self-signed certificate. The certificate is used for `shellforce_server` explained later. 

  %> shellforce_config
  Please enter information for creating a self-signed certificate.
  Country Name (2 letter code) [JP]:

A file named 'local_config.rb' will be created on ENV["HOME"]/.shellforce. Set `client_id` and `client_secret` of your salesforce.com organization. Setting a path to a CA file is recommended. A CA file can be downloaded at http://curl.haxx.se/ca/cacert.pem .

  require 'shellforce/config'

  ShellForce.configure :default do
    set :client_id => 'client id of your salesforce.com organization goes here'
    set :client_secret => 'client secret of your salesforce.com organization goes here'
    set :ca_file => 'path to a CA file goes here'
    set :pp => true
    set :postprocess => [lambda{|h,b| print b; return h,b}]
    set :logging => false 
  end

== Shell

Execute `shellforce`. This will ask you to input your credentials of your salesforce.com organization.

  %> shellforce
  Initializing...
  Enter your salesforce.com credentials.
  User name: 

If the credetials are valid, a command prompt will be shown. (the form of the command prompt may vary depending on your IRB setting.)

== Examples

By default, the shell sets the root resource path to <URL of your salesforce.com organization> + '/services/data' + <the latest API version>, e.g. 'https://na7.salesforce.com/services/data/v23.0'. Specify the rest of the resource path to `get`, `post`, `patch` and `delete`. For SOQL and SOSL queries, just specify a query string after `query` or `search`, respectively. 

  # A response can be returned as XML format
  >> get '/sobjects/account'
  >> get '/sobjects/account', :xml  
  >> post '/sobjects/account', '{"name" : "hoge"}'
  
  # NOTE: the ID is different in your salesforce.com organization  
  >> patch '/sobjects/account/001A000000nhLV6IAN', '{"BillingCity" : "Tokyo"}'  
  >> delete '/sobjects/account/001A000000nhLV6IAN'
  
  >> query 'select name from account'
  >> search 'find {"fuga"}'

  # A Ruby style hash can be specified instead of message segments
  >> post '/chatter/feeds/news/me/feed-items', '{"body" : {"messageSegments": [{"type": "Text", "text":"hoge"}]}}'
  >> post '/chatter/feeds/news/me/feed-items', {"text" => "hoge"}
  
  >> post '/chatter/feed-items/0D5A000000YeellKAC/comments', '{"body" : {"messageSegments": [{"type": "Text", "text":"fuga"}]}}'
  >> post '/chatter/feed-items/0D5A000000YeellKAC/comments', {"text" => "fuga"}

  # A profile photo can also be uploaded
  >> post '/chatter/users/me/photo', {"fileUpload" => File.new("me.jpg")}
  
  # NOTE: the second argument is an empty string
  >> post '/chatter/feed-items/0D5A000000YeellKAB/likes', ''  

== Using other resource paths

`to` command will allow you to change the root resource path.

  # The root resource path is set to 'https://na7.salesforce.com/' if your salesforce.com organization is hosted at na7.salesforce.com
  >> to :root
  >> ""  
  >> get '/services/data'

  # The root resource path is set to 'https://na7.salesforce.com/services/data/v23.0'  
  >> to :data
  >> "/services/data/v23.0"

For Apex REST, execute 'to :apex'. 

  # Your own Apex REST serivice has to be implemented beforehand
  >> to :apex
  >> "/services/apexrest"

  
== Using multiple configurations

Just add more configurations to your local_config.rb if necessary. Specify the name of the configuration to `shellforce`. Your local_config.rb may look like

  require 'shellforce/config'

  ShellForce.configure :default do
    set :client_id => 'client id of your salesforce.com organization goes here'
    set :client_secret => 'client secret of your salesforce.com organization goes here'
    set :ca_file => 'path to a CA file goes here'
    set :pp => true
    set :postprocess => [lambda{|h,b| print b; return h,b}]
    set :logging => false 
  end

  
  ShellForce.configure :another do
    set :client_id => 'client id of another salesforce.com organization goes here'
    set :client_secret => 'client secret of another salesforce.com organization goes here'
    set :ca_file => 'path to a CA file'    
    set :pp => false
    set :postprocess => [lambda{|h,b| print b; return h,b}]
    set :logging => true
  end

  %> shellforce another

== Scripting

   require 'shellforce'

   # Specify a configuration name if other configuration than the default one is necessary
   # Set your user name and password in the configuration as explained below so that those things have to be entered manually
   ShellForce.config.use :another

   client = ShellForce::Client.new
   ...

  
== Tweaking the response

A response of a REST API request can be tweaked by implementing plug-ins. A plug-in has to accept two arguments, response header and response body, and have a method named `call` with no arguments. For example, the following plug-in just prints a response body.

  lambda{|h, b| print b; return h,b}  # h contains response headers and b contains a response body
  
== Logging

In a configuration, set `logging` to true. A file named `log.txt` will be created on ENV["HOME"]/.shellforce.

== Miscellaneous

If you do not want to enter your credential information when you execute `shellforce`, set `user_name` and `password` in your configuration.

  ShellForce.configure :default do
    set :client_id => 'client id of your salesforce.com organization goes here'
    set :client_secret => 'client secret of your salesforce.com organization goes here'
    set :user_name => 'your user name goes here'
    set :password => 'your password goes here'
    set :ca_file => 'path to a CA file goes here'
    set :pp => true
    set :postprocess => [lambda{|h,b| print b; return h,b}]
    set :logging => false 
  end

  %> shellforce
  Initializing...
  >>

Some pieces of information are obtained from the command line

  >> instance_url     # The instance URL that your salesforce.com organization is hosted
  >> organization_id  # The ID of your salesforce.com organization
  >> user_name        # Your user name
  >> token            # OAuth token

Multi-byte characters can be used in the command line without escaping them (Your terminal application has to support UTF-8.)

  >> query "select name from account where name = '河竹 千春'"
  >> post '/chatter/feeds/news/me/feed-items', {"text" => "日本語も大丈夫"}  
  
== REST Explorer clone

As an applicaiton of shellforce, a clone of REST Explorer, part of Workbench developed by Ryan Brainard (https://workbench.developerforce.com/login.php) is available. Install some gems first before using it.

  %> gem install rack
  %> gem install sinatra
  %> gem install haml
  %> shellforce_server

Access 'https://localhost:3000/shellforce' with your web browser. Enter your credential informaiton if necessary. 

== Meta

Written by Chiharu Kawatake

Released under the MIT License: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

shellforce is NOT a supported product of or supported by salesforce.com, inc.

This application is provided 'AS IS' and the user assumes all risks associated with its use. 

